How do you feel when you have exerted yourself in some way and some when you deeply respect says to you, well done?
Don't you feel assured that your efforts were recognized and appreciated?
However, when you dear brothers and sisters in the 151st Class of Gilead arrive at your assignments and you exert yourself to
accomplish the work you've been given and give it yourself to encourage and help others.
Suppose you don't always receive an audible, well done from others.
How will you feel?
Does that mean that your efforts were not appreciated and recognized?
To answer those questions, we're going to consider first what Jesus had to say on the subject.
Second, what we can learn from some Bible examples and third, what this means for you personally.
Although the desire to receive recognition from humans is normal, Jesus helps us to have a balanced view in Matthew
chapter 6. Please turn to Matthew chapter 6 and note verse 3, Matthew 6 verse 3,
but you, when making gifts of mercy, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing.
Now, what did Jesus mean? Well, these gifts of mercy were really donations for needy ones,
but with these words, Jesus was exhorting his disciples not to imitate the insincere religious leaders
of his day, who publicized their gifts of mercy just to be recognized by humans.
Now, what would be the result of heeding Jesus' words here in verse 3?
Well, Jesus explains in verse 4, he says, so that your gifts of mercy may be in secret.
Now, for a moment, think of the gifts of mercy, the kindnesses, the Theoretic assignments that you
have performed in secret. For example, likely you've many times telephoned, visited,
an ailing brother or sister just to reassure them of your love, your concern, and even pray with them,
or perhaps you spent considerable time being a spiritual mentor to a Christian youth,
or you may have given generously of yourself to encourage and provide practical assistance to a
distress brother or sister. All of this you did in secret. However, Jesus said,
someone you deeply respect did take note. Look there at Matthew 6, verse 4,
he stated in the bit, be part, your father who looks on in secret. The point is Jehovah,
who resides in the heavens, is invisible to mankind. So he remains in secret as far as humans are
concerned. But your good deeds are recognized with approval by Jehovah. Now, how can we be sure of
that? Well, there are many Bible examples of faithful men and women, young and old whose good deeds
and heartfelt devotion were recognized with approval by Jehovah. One example is Obadaya, the
household steward of Wicked King Ahab. First King, chapter 18, explains that he discreetly, secretly
and cautiously hid 100 of Jehovah's prophets, so they would not be killed by Wicked Jezebel.
Now, as illustrated here, Obadaya supplied them with bread and water in groups of 50
in caves without being observed by others. How do we know that Jehovah in secret recognized
with approval this faithful, generous, compassionate man? Well, we know because his courageous acts are
recorded in the Bible for generations of people to read about. Another example is the young,
nameless, isgerlite girl mentioned in 2 Kings, chapter 5. She was taken away from her god-fearing
family by the Syrians. Now, as can be seen in this picture, although surrounded by false worship
is, she courageously told Nehemen's wife about Jehovah's prophet Elisha. That led to Nehemen's
miraculous healing of his leprosy. It led to Nehemen becoming a worshiper of Jehovah and
it certainly contributed to Jehovah's praise. We don't know the name of that little girl,
do we? But Jehovah does, who in secret looked favorably on that young girl. So these two examples,
and many others in the scriptures, are sure you that your good deeds are noted by Jehovah.
Please note, though, that Jehovah does more than just look on in secret. Look again, please,
at Matthew 6, verse 4. The B part, red in its entirety, says, then your father who looks on in secret
will repay you. Often, Jehovah repays us in unexpected ways, in ways that are better and more
meaningful than humans could ever give us in the way of recognition. But how does Jehovah
repay us? While there are many ways, we're going to focus just on three significant ones. One way is
mentioned in Matthew 5, verse 7. Matthew 5, 7, Jesus said, Happy other merciful since they will be
shown mercy. So by our being kind and merciful, Jehovah mercifully forgives us and allows us to
enjoy a warm personal relationship with him. A second way he repays us is mentioned in
Mark 10, verses 29 and 30. There, Jesus promised that we would receive 100 times more than anything we
sacrifice to serve Jehovah. And one resulting tangible reward that Jehovah provides is our ever
expanding, loving spiritual family. A third way he repays is by means of his promise of the
priceless reward of everlasting life in God's new world. And regarding righteous ones who perform
good deeds, but fall asleep in death before the end of this system, Jesus and Luke chapter 14,
verse 14 gave the assurance that they will be repaid in the resurrection. And then they will see
the full effect of Jehovah's recognition and blessing on their good deeds. In addition to your
gifts of mercy and your new assignments, your heartfelt devotion will be reflected as you with
Jehovah's help, face and successfully endure various challenges, many of which others will know
nothing about. But even though you may not receive recognition or a complimentary well done from
others for your good deeds, your kindnesses, your sacrifices, and your endurance, please remain
confident that you will be recognized with approval by a loving father, Jehovah. And as Jesus
promised, Jehovah, who looks on in secret, will repay you.